readme.md, before:

# Web API Skeleton

Skeleton for Dropwizard Web APIs.

### Generate Keys

HTTPS is required for Web APIs in development and production. Use `keytool(1)` to generate public and private keys.

Generate key pair and keystore:

    $ keytool \
        -genkeypair \
        -dname "CN=Jane Doe, OU=Enterprise Computing Services, O=Oregon State University, L=Corvallis, S=Oregon, C=US" \
        -ext "san=dns:localhost,ip:127.0.0.1" \
        -alias doej \
        -keyalg RSA \
        -keysize 2048 \
        -sigalg SHA256withRSA \
        -validity 365 \
        -keystore doej.keystore

Export certificate to file:

    $ keytool \
        -exportcert \
        -rfc \
        -alias "doej" \
        -keystore doej.keystore \
        -file doej.pem

Import certificate into truststore:

    $ keytool \
        -importcert \
        -alias "doej" \
        -file doej.pem \
        -keystore doej.truststore

## Gradle

This project uses the build automation tool Gradle. Use the [Gradle Wrapper](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/gradle_wrapper.html) to download and install it automatically:

    $ ./gradlew

The Gradle wrapper installs Gradle in the directory `~/.gradle`. To add it to your `$PATH`, add the following line to `~/.bashrc`:

    $ export PATH=$PATH:/home/user/.gradle/wrapper/dists/gradle-2.4-all/WRAPPER_GENERATED_HASH/gradle-2.4/bin

The changes will take effect once you restart the terminal or `source ~/.bashrc`.

## Tasks

List all tasks runnable from root project:

    $ gradle tasks

### IntelliJ IDEA

Generate IntelliJ IDEA project:

    $ gradle idea

Open with `File` -> `Open Project`.

### Configure

Copy [configuration-example.yaml](configuration-example.yaml) to `configuration.yaml`. Modify as necessary, being careful to avoid committing sensitive data.

### Build

Build the project:

    $ gradle build

JARs [will be saved](https://github.com/johnrengelman/shadow#using-the-default-plugin-task) into the directory `build/libs/`.

### Run

Run the project:

    $ gradle run

## Contrib Files

Any code that contains intellectual property from a vendor should be stored in Github Enterprise instead of public Github. Make the name of the contrib repo in Github Enterprise follow this format using archivesBaseName in gradle.properties.

    archivesBaseName-contrib

Set the value of getContribFiles to yes in gradle.properties.

    getContribFiles=yes

Also set the value of contribCommit to the SHA1 of the desired commit to be used from the contrib repository.

    contribCommit={SHA1}
    
Files in a Github Enterprise repo will be copied to this directory upon building the application.

    gradle build

Contrib files are copied to:

    /src/main/groovy/edu/oregonstate/mist/contrib/
    
## Base a New Project off the Skeleton

Clone the skeleton:

    $ git clone --origin skeleton git@github.com:osu-mist/web-api-skeleton.git my-api
    $ cd my-api

Rename the webapiskeleton package and SkeletonApplication class:

    $ git mv src/main/groovy/edu/oregonstate/mist/webapiskeleton src/main/groovy/edu/oregonstate/mist/myapi
    $ vim src/main/groovy/edu/oregonstate/mist/myapi/SkeletonApplication.class

Update gradle.properties with your package name and main class.

Replace swagger.yaml with your own API specification.

Update configuration-example.yaml as appropriate for your application.

Update the resource examples at the end of this readme.

## Base an Existing Project off the Skeleton

Add the skeleton as a remote:

    $ git remote add skeleton git@github.com:osu-mist/web-api-skeleton.git
    $ git fetch skeleton

Merge the skeleton into your codebase:

    $ git checkout feature/abc-123-branch
    $ git merge skeleton/master
    ...
    $ git commit -v


## Incorporate Updates from the Skeleton

Fetch updates from the skeleton:

    $ git fetch skeleton

Merge the updates into your codebase as before.
Note that changes to CodeNarc configuration may introduce build failures.

    $ git checkout feature/abc-124-branch
    $ git merge skeleton/master
    ...
    $ git commit -v


## Resources

The Web API definition is contained in the [Swagger specification](swagger.yaml).

The following examples demonstrate the use of `curl` to make authenticated HTTPS requests.

### GET /

This resource returns build and runtime information:

    $ curl \
    > --cacert doej.pem \
    > --user "username:password" \
    > https://localhost:8080/api/v0/
    {"name":"web-api-skeleton","time":"2016-08-02 14:37:01-0700","unixTime":1470173821035,"commit":"e3d396e","documentation":"swagger.yaml"}

NOTE: you should only specify a certificate with --cacert for local testing.
Production servers should use a real certificate
issued by a valid certificate authority.

Commit message:

Swagger design for positions api.
CO-861

readme.md, after:

# Positions API

List position title and position number tied to a department and business center

### Generate Keys

HTTPS is required for Web APIs in development and production. Use `keytool(1)` to generate public and private keys.

Generate key pair and keystore:

    $ keytool \
        -genkeypair \
        -dname "CN=Jane Doe, OU=Enterprise Computing Services, O=Oregon State University, L=Corvallis, S=Oregon, C=US" \
        -ext "san=dns:localhost,ip:127.0.0.1" \
        -alias doej \
        -keyalg RSA \
        -keysize 2048 \
        -sigalg SHA256withRSA \
        -validity 365 \
        -keystore doej.keystore

Export certificate to file:

    $ keytool \
        -exportcert \
        -rfc \
        -alias "doej" \
        -keystore doej.keystore \
        -file doej.pem

Import certificate into truststore:

    $ keytool \
        -importcert \
        -alias "doej" \
        -file doej.pem \
        -keystore doej.truststore

## Gradle

This project uses the build automation tool Gradle. Use the [Gradle Wrapper](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/gradle_wrapper.html) to download and install it automatically:

    $ ./gradlew

The Gradle wrapper installs Gradle in the directory `~/.gradle`. To add it to your `$PATH`, add the following line to `~/.bashrc`:

    $ export PATH=$PATH:/home/user/.gradle/wrapper/dists/gradle-2.4-all/WRAPPER_GENERATED_HASH/gradle-2.4/bin

The changes will take effect once you restart the terminal or `source ~/.bashrc`.

## Tasks

List all tasks runnable from root project:

    $ gradle tasks

### IntelliJ IDEA

Generate IntelliJ IDEA project:

    $ gradle idea

Open with `File` -> `Open Project`.

### Configure

Copy [configuration-example.yaml](configuration-example.yaml) to `configuration.yaml`. Modify as necessary, being careful to avoid committing sensitive data.

### Build

Build the project:

    $ gradle build

JARs [will be saved](https://github.com/johnrengelman/shadow#using-the-default-plugin-task) into the directory `build/libs/`.

### Run

Run the project:

    $ gradle run

## Contrib Files

Any code that contains intellectual property from a vendor should be stored in Github Enterprise instead of public Github. Make the name of the contrib repo in Github Enterprise follow this format using archivesBaseName in gradle.properties.

    archivesBaseName-contrib

Set the value of getContribFiles to yes in gradle.properties.

    getContribFiles=yes

Also set the value of contribCommit to the SHA1 of the desired commit to be used from the contrib repository.

    contribCommit={SHA1}
    
Files in a Github Enterprise repo will be copied to this directory upon building the application.

    gradle build

Contrib files are copied to:

    /src/main/groovy/edu/oregonstate/mist/contrib/
    
## Base a New Project off the Skeleton

Clone the skeleton:

    $ git clone --origin skeleton git@github.com:osu-mist/web-api-skeleton.git my-api
    $ cd my-api

Rename the webapiskeleton package and SkeletonApplication class:

    $ git mv src/main/groovy/edu/oregonstate/mist/webapiskeleton src/main/groovy/edu/oregonstate/mist/myapi
    $ vim src/main/groovy/edu/oregonstate/mist/myapi/SkeletonApplication.class

Update gradle.properties with your package name and main class.

Replace swagger.yaml with your own API specification.

Update configuration-example.yaml as appropriate for your application.

Update the resource examples at the end of this readme.

## Base an Existing Project off the Skeleton

Add the skeleton as a remote:

    $ git remote add skeleton git@github.com:osu-mist/web-api-skeleton.git
    $ git fetch skeleton

Merge the skeleton into your codebase:

    $ git checkout feature/abc-123-branch
    $ git merge skeleton/master
    ...
    $ git commit -v


## Incorporate Updates from the Skeleton

Fetch updates from the skeleton:

    $ git fetch skeleton

Merge the updates into your codebase as before.
Note that changes to CodeNarc configuration may introduce build failures.

    $ git checkout feature/abc-124-branch
    $ git merge skeleton/master
    ...
    $ git commit -v


## Resources

The Web API definition is contained in the [Swagger specification](swagger.yaml).

The following examples demonstrate the use of `curl` to make authenticated HTTPS requests.

### GET /

This resource returns build and runtime information:

    $ curl \
    > --cacert doej.pem \
    > --user "username:password" \
    > https://localhost:8080/api/v0/
    {"name":"web-api-skeleton","time":"2016-08-02 14:37:01-0700","unixTime":1470173821035,"commit":"e3d396e","documentation":"swagger.yaml"}

NOTE: you should only specify a certificate with --cacert for local testing.
Production servers should use a real certificate
issued by a valid certificate authority.
